In this video,
we'll cover Parameterized Tests.
At the moment, we've created tests
for specific Fizz Buzz Input Values.
But I'd like to pass in a collection of values
and expected results and run the same test
in a loop.
Over on the left-hand side,
I have a list of values
and I want to pass all those values
into the Fizz Buzz test and run it in a loop.
Here's one possible solution.
We can set up a test
and we simply define the values in an array.
Over on the right-hand side, I have the data
and over on the left hand-side,
I'll set up this string array.
So I'll pass in an actual value
and the expected result.
And I'll just repeat the process
for the other lines of data.
And then I'll simply just set up a for loop
and for the value it's data sub i, sub 0.
And then for the actual expected value,
it's going to be data sub i, sub 1.
We're basically just reading the data here.
And now that we have this data,
then we can go ahead and perform our asserts
on assertEquals and in FizzBuzz.compute
Integer.parseInt value.
I need to do the parseInt on the value
because the value's a string
but the actual method expects a integer.
So I need to do that conversion there.
And then I can run the test
and I can see the actual test results.
But wait. JUnit to the rescue.
JUnit actually provides a parameterized test.
It allows us to run a test multiple times
and provide different parameter values.
I can take that data that I have
on the left hand side
and I can pass all that data
into the Fizz Buzz test and behind the scenes,
JUnit will run the test multiple times
and supply the data as parameters.
And Junit will do all of the looping work
for you in the background.
Hmm, I like that. Pretty cool.
Now you may wonder
what about the source of values?
Like where can we get the values?
Well, there are a number of annotations
that you can make use of.
You can use the annotation ValueSource.
You simply pass in on array of values
like strings, ints, doubles, floats, et cetera.
You can also pass in a CsvSource.
So an array of CSV string values
and CSV stands for Comma Separated Value.
We can also make use of a CSVFileSource.
So effectively reading those CSV values
from a file.
We can also make use of Enums.
So pass in enum constant values.
And we can also use MethodSource
so we can provide our own custom method
for providing the values.
So a lot of flexibility here.
Let's take a look at an example here
using CSV source.
So I have my data over on the right.
I'll set up my test.
The one thing that's different here is
that we make use of parameterized test
instead of normal test.
I'll set up the CSV source.
So I basically pass in an array of data.
In my example, the first item is the value.
And the second item is the expected value.
And then I'd simply repeat the process
for all of the other values.
And then I write my Test method.
One thing to notice here is
that the Test method now has parameters
because we're making use of parameterized test
and behind the scenes,
JUnit's going to run the test multiple times
and supply the data for the parameters
and JUnit will do the looping for you.
And now when I write my actual test body,
all I have to do is simply give an assert equals.
So assertEquals expected, FizzBuzz.compute
and I pass in a value. And that's it.
All of the looping happens in the background.
And then over on the right hand side,
we can see the actual test results here.
So it'll show the actual index
and then the first value
and then the actual expected value.
And we can actually customize
how these invocations are displayed.
In my code, when I set up the parameterized test
I can actually give the name
of that given invocation.
Here, I'll say value equals.
I use the curly brace and 0.
That's index 0 expected equals curly brace 1.
So that's basically the placeholders
of the actual data that I'm reading in.
So now when I run this,
then for each one of those invocations
we'll have our own custom name
for that given invocation.
Basically, as we loop through the data
for each one of the test.
Now let's take this and get rid
of that hard coded data in our code.
And now let's put it into a CSV file.
I'll create this file here.
Source test resources, small-test-data.CSV.
You can give any name for the file that you like.
I'll have the value, the expected
and that's what works for our given example.
And now I'll set up my test.
Mostly everything is the same
except for this one entry here, CSV files source
and I give resources equal and I reference the actual file
and it'll basically load that file,
process it accordingly,
just like we did in some of the previous examples
and use the data and make use
of the assertEquals expected, FizzBuzz.compute the value.
Again behind the scenes,
JUnit's going to read that data.
It's going to call this test X number of times
using the data from that CSV file.
And then over on the right,
we see the actual test results
and everything passed.
So this is pretty cool.
And now this is just a small test CSV file.
You can imagine having a much larger file
of maybe 50 items or a 100 items
and you can simply just pass in all that data,
use the annotation and everything will execute.
I like it.
And if you'd like to get some more information,
there are some additional features
for parameterized test,
such as MethodSource, Argument Aggregation,
and so forth. Take a look at the JUnit user guide
and then look at the section
for Parameterized Test.
They have a lot of good examples
that you can read through.
All right, well, I'm getting really excited
about this. Let's go ahead and move
into the next video
and let's start writing some code.